README.md, before:

# Erasmus (Meta) Genetic Programming

**EGP is under construction: Feel free to browse but don't hope to find organised documentation & a usable application (yet).**

Erasmus Genetic Programming , Erasmsus GP or just EGP, emulates the principles of natural evolution through a synthetic framework, using functional and physical primitives to create a dynamic and adaptive artificial ecosystem. This approach not only advances our understanding of evolutionary processes but also pushes the boundaries of Artificial Life and Intelligence.

## Index

- [Introduction to Genetic Programming](docs/background.md)
- [An Alternate View "Evolution: A Synthetic Approach"](docs/alternate.md)
- How EGP Works
  - [Genetic Codes](egppy/egppy/gc_types/docs/gcs.md)
  - [Populations](egppy/egppy/populations/docs/populations.md)
    - [EGP Seed](egpseed/docs/overview.md)
  - [Problems](egppy/egppy/problems/docs/problems.md)
    - [Genesis](egppy/egppy/problems/docs/genesis.md)
    - [Tic-Tac-Toe](egppy/egppy/problems/docs/tic-tac-toe.md)
  - [EGP Physics](egppy/egppy/physics/docs/physics.md)
- EGP Application
  - Quick Start Guide
  - [Architecture](docs/architecture.md)
  - [Implementation](docs/implementation.md)

Commit message:

Add documentation for EGP logos, refactor JSON loading and dumping functions, and update README with project goals

README.md, after:

# Erasmus Meta Genetic Programming: Generation III

**EGP is under construction: Feel free to browse but don't hope to find organised documentation & a usable application (yet).**

Erasmus Meta Genetic Programming, Erasmsus GP or just EGP, emulates the principles of natural evolution through a synthetic framework, using functional primitives to create a dynamic and adaptive artificial ecosystem to solve problems.

## Index

- [An Introduction to Genetic Programming](docs/background.md)
- [Goals of EGP](docs/goals.md)
- [An Overview of How EGP works](docs/overview.md)
- [Why!? (a.k.a FAQ)](docs/why.md)
- [An Alternate View "Evolution: A Synthetic Approach"](docs/alternate.md)
- How EGP Works in More Detail
  - [Genetic Codes](egppy/egppy/gc_types/docs/gcs.md)
  - [Populations](egppy/egppy/populations/docs/populations.md)
    - [EGP Seed](egpseed/docs/overview.md)
  - [Problems](egppy/egppy/problems/docs/problems.md)
    - [Genesis](egppy/egppy/problems/docs/genesis.md)
    - [Tic-Tac-Toe](egppy/egppy/problems/docs/tic-tac-toe.md)
  - [EGP Physics](egppy/egppy/physics/docs/physics.md)

- EGP Application
  - Quick Start Guide
  - [Architecture](docs/architecture.md)
  - [Implementation](docs/implementation.md)
