egppy/egppy/physics/docs/physics.md, before:

# EGP Physics

Erasmus GP can be thought of as an artificial universe in which artificial life or artificial intelligence is theoretically possible (but by no means a forgone conclusion). Our universe is derived from, to the extent that we know of, the fundamental laws & elements of its physics like the 2nd law of thermodynamics, quarks and leptons etc. Stars, planets, oceans, life and intelligence all derive from those fundamental elements to satisfy the laws. The Erasmus universe works on the same principles just with a different set of fundamental elements and laws with the aim of expressing in similar ways.

- Types
- Codons
- Selectors

## Types

Types are analogous to fundamental particles in the real world. There no sub-types they can be created from or operation to make them they just are. These select python objects, the basic types such as *int*, *str* and *float* but also EGP specific classes like *GGC* and *Selector* (more on these below).

## Codons

Codons operate on instances of types to produce instances of types (the produced instances may be the same instances, different instances of the same types or instances of different types altogether). In reality they are python functions that (may) take parameter objects, perform some sort of operation with them or on them and (may) return objects. Codons are atomic and immutable and can be connected together into Genetic Codes, GC's, which are just more complex python functions. As with functions, GC's can call other GC's in a tree structure until a codon (terminal/leaf node) is called. Codons and Genetic Codes are both of the variants of the base GC type so there are codons that operate on codons, to stick them together in various ways, and GC's that operate on GC's, to extend, mutate or trim them. Genetic Codes is where all the action is at in EGP.

## Selectors

Whilst the Erasmus universe can be intuitive it can also be very alien; there is no direct analogy to space, entropy, gravity etc. In our universe chemicals react when they are bought together by physical processes into close enough proximity with the right energetic conditions. Inside an information universe there is no concept of space, there is related information and unrelated information but none of it is near or far from each other in any other fundamentally meaningful way. Its a bit like how you are viewing this document, it is meaningless how far away you physically are from where this file is physically stored. There are no natural forces, like gravity, pulling matter together in a well where it may react, or processes of decay that determine what chemicals are likely to be locally in abundance. Defining arbitary laws for how information comes together is likely not to work and combining everything with a single random law will be slow. It is the role of selectors in EGP to define with what probability types and operations come together to 'react' and make something new.

Selectors are a type of GC too.
Much to think out here.
Most simple is a random selector.
What is the selector interface?

Commit message:

Add JSON definitions for Python containers and numbers; remove obsolete files

egppy/egppy/physics/docs/physics.md, after:

# EGP Physics

Erasmus GP can be thought of as an artificial universe in which artificial life or artificial intelligence is theoretically possible (but by no means a forgone conclusion). Our universe is derived from, to the extent that we know of, the fundamental laws & elements of its physics like the 2nd law of thermodynamics, quarks and leptons etc. Stars, planets, oceans, life and intelligence all derive from those fundamental elements to satisfy the laws. The Erasmus universe works on the same principles just with a different set of fundamental elements and laws with the aim of expressing in similar ways.

- Types
- Codons
- Selectors

## Types

Types are python objects such as *int*, *str* and *float*, compound containers like *list[list[str]]* and also EGP specific classes like *GGC* and *Selector* (more on these below). There is the *any* type which can match any other type as well as two meta-types *hoany*, the "homogeneous any" type, and *heany*, the "heterogeneous any" type. These are meta-types because they do not exist as types themselves only as types in a container type e.g. list[hoany] or tuple[heany] where the types in the containers are homogeneous and hetrogeneous respectively.

EGP is strongly typed in that GC's interfaces are statically defined, the type of the output is set when the GC is created. The three ambiguous types become strongly typed by the series of 'isinstance_of_*' codons.

## Codons

Codons operate on instances of types to produce instances of types (the produced instances may be the same instances, different instances of the same types or instances of different types altogether). In reality they are python functions that (may) take parameter objects, perform some sort of operation with them or on them and (may) return objects. Codons are atomic and immutable and can be connected together into Genetic Codes, GC's, which are just more complex python functions. As with functions, GC's can call other GC's in a tree structure until a codon (terminal/leaf node) is called. Codons and Genetic Codes are both of the variants of the base GC type so there are codons that operate on codons, to stick them together in various ways, and GC's that operate on GC's, to extend, mutate or trim them. Genetic Codes is where all the action is at in EGP.

## Selectors

Whilst the Erasmus universe can be intuitive it can also be very alien; there is no direct analogy to space, entropy, gravity etc. In our universe chemicals react when they are bought together by physical processes into close enough proximity with the right energetic conditions. Inside an information universe there is no concept of space, there is related information and unrelated information but none of it is near or far from each other in any other fundamentally meaningful way. Its a bit like how you are viewing this document, it is meaningless how far away you physically are from where this file is physically stored. There are no natural forces, like gravity, pulling matter together in a well where it may react, or processes of decay that determine what chemicals are likely to be locally in abundance. Defining arbitary laws for how information comes together is likely not to work and combining everything with a single random law will be slow. It is the role of selectors in EGP to define with what probability types and operations come together to 'react' and make something new.

Selectors are a type of GC too.
Much to think out here.
Most simple is a random selector.
What is the selector interface?
