egpdbmgr/docs/sw_architecture.md, before:

# EGP Database Manager - Architecture

## Top Level

```mermaid
---
title: EGP DBM Architecture
---
flowchart TD
    db1[(Postgres
        GP/GL DB)]
    db2[(Postgres
        Archive DB)]
    dbm1["EGP DB Manager"]
    bu1[/"Archive Files"/]

    db1 <--> dbm1
    dbm1 <--> db2
    dbm1 <--> bu1
```

The EGP DB Manager is an independent process (container) that manages a postgres database for a storage role in EGP. The storage role (Gene Pool, Genomic Library, Archive) is defined by the DBM configuration upon creation.

The Postgres GP/GL DB should be more performant that the archive DB and is typically configured with more indexes & other parameters for speed. The Postgres Archive DB is used as a slower store of less frequently used GC's when the main DB reaches its size limit. When the Archive DB reaches its size limit unused GC's (the entire gene line of a poorly performing GC) are placed in to encrypted compressed database back up files.

## Initialisation

When the DBM intializes it will create or migrate the DB's as required and then respawn. This is to ensure any potential additional memory claim by these one-off processes are freed to the system before long term operation commences.

```mermaid
---
title: EGP DBM Initialisation
---
flowchart TD
    init1[Parse Configuration]
    init2[DB Discovery]
    init3{DB Exists}
    crt1[Create DB's]
    crt2{Higher Layer
        DB Exists?}
    crt3[Populate from
        Higher Layer]
    crt4{Remote DB file exists?}
    crt5[Pull remote DB file]
    crt6[Validate file signature]
    crt7[Populate from file]
    crt8[Validate installation signature]
    crt9[Populate from
        Installation]
    init4{Migration
        required?}
    init5[Run Archive
        Process once]
    init6[Lock DBs]
    init7[Backup DBs]
    init8[Migrate
        1 version]
    init9{Migration
        required ?}
    init10[Start
        operation]
    end1[Shutdown &
        respawn]
    st1[Sync to HL
        Process]
    st2[Archive
        Process]
    st3[REST API
        Process]
    st4[Analytics
        Process]

    init1 --> init2
    init2 --> init3
    init3 --> |Yes|init4
    init3 --> |No|crt1
    init4 --> |No|init5
    init5 --> init10
    init4 --> |Yes|init6
    init6 --> init7
    init7 --> init8
    init8 --> init9
    init9 --> |Yes|init8
    init9 --> |No|end1
    init10 --> st1
    init10 --> st2
    init10 --> st3
    init10 --> st4

    crt1 --> crt2
    crt2 --> |Yes|crt3
    crt2 --> |No|crt4
    crt3 --> end1
    crt4 --> |Yes|crt5
    crt4 --> |No|crt8
    crt5 --> crt6
    crt6 --> crt7
    crt7 --> end1
    crt8 --> crt9
    crt9 --> end1

```

## Operation

### Archive Process

```mermaid
---
title: EGP DBM Archive Process
---
flowchart TD
    arc1{DB Size over
        limit?}
    arc2[Wait N
        seconds]
    arc3[Identify
        Candidates]
    arc4[Sync to HL
        on policy]
    arc5[Move to
        archive]
    arc6{Archive over
        limit?}
    arc7[Sync to HL
        on policy]
    arc8[Move to
        file]
        
    arc1 --> |No|arc2
    arc2 --> arc1
    arc1 --> |Yes|arc3
    arc3 --> arc4
    arc4 --> arc5
    arc5 --> arc6
    arc6 --> |No|arc1
    arc6 --> |Yes|arc7
    arc7 --> arc8
    arc8 --> arc1
```

### Sync to Higher Layer Process

### REST API Process

### Analytics Process

### File Archive

The file archive created from the EGP DBM is an unordered, size limited, encrypted, signed, binary, compressed file that is
background transfered to the Universal Archive Queue (a remote process that queues archive files for indexed storage).

## The Universal Archive

The Universal Archive, UA, is a centralized archive of GC's stored in files. The archive files are binary, in order, fixed size
records keyed by the GC signature. Archive files are required to be limited to 2**24 entries. When an archive file reaches its
entry limit it splits into two files one covering the lower signature range and the other the upper signature range. This means
the two files are unlikely to have the same number of entries but should be similar. e.g. The first archive files contains
signatures in the range 0x000...000 to 0xFFF...FFF. When it reaches its size limit it splits into two archives one holding
signatures in the range 0x000...000 to 0x7FF...FFF and the other 0x800...000 to 0xFFF...FFF. By convention archive files are named
with the lower bound significant hexadecimal characters followed by a hyphen and the upper bound significant hexadecimal characters
with the .bin extension e.g.

- 0-F.bin for the 1st archive file covering all signatures (0x000...000 to 0xFFF...FFF).
- 0-7.bin and 8-F.bin when the 1st archive file exceeds 2**24 entries and is split into two.
- 107-10F.bin for the signature range 0x10700...000 to 0x10FFF...FFF

All files are signed but not encrypted to enable storage based direct record access.

## Database Auxillary Tables

Besides the GC's in the main database table the DBM creates and manages some auxillary data tables to performance and analytics.

### DB Metadata

- UUID
- Version
- Created time
- Migration list (to version and timestamp)
- Host list (more than one if the DB moved hosts)
- Creator UUID
- Archive information
- HL Sync information
- Worker Session information

### Timeseries Analytics

- DB Size in GC's
- Number GC's archived
- Number GC's updated
- Number GC's sync'd
- Number problems
- Number populations
- Fitness distributions

etc.

Commit message:

Refactor DBManagerConfig and DBManager for improved clarity and functionality
- Renamed local_db, local_type, remote_dbs, remote_type to managed_db, managed_type, upstream_dbs, upstream_type in DBManagerConfig.
- Updated initialization and property methods in DBManagerConfig to reflect new naming conventions.
- Refactored DBManager to utilize the new DBManagerConfig structure, including changes to initialization and schema preparation.
- Removed the local database store and cache, replacing it with a centralized GenePoolInterface that manages genetic codes.
- Updated tests to align with the new DBManagerConfig structure and removed obsolete tests related to the GC store.
- Enhanced GenePoolInterface to ensure proper initialization and caching of genetic codes.
- Adjusted imports and dependencies across various modules to accommodate the refactor.

egpdbmgr/docs/sw_architecture.md, after:

# EGP Database Manager - Architecture

## Top Level

```mermaid
---
title: EGP DBM Architecture
---
flowchart TD
    db1[(Postgres
        GP/GL DB)]
    db2[(Postgres
        Archive DB)]
    dbm1["EGP DB Manager"]
    bu1[/"Archive Files"/]

    db1 <--> dbm1
    dbm1 <--> db2
    dbm1 <--> bu1
```

The EGP DB Manager is an independent process (container) that manages a postgres database for a storage role in EGP. The storage role (Local, Gene Pool, Genomic Library, Archive) is defined by the DBM configuration upon creation. The DBM manages its database as a cache to the upstream databases but also takes care of low value data archiving to reduce noise and data volume at the higer layers (upstream).

The database being managed by the DBM is called the 'Managed' database. It is initially populated with data from one or more upstream databases or from local static file storage in the event that the upstream storage is unavailible or not configured. Low value data, based on configuration rules, is periodically purged to the archive.

The Postgres DB should be more performant that the archive DB and is typically configured with more indexes & other parameters for speed. The Postgres Archive DB is used as a slower store of less frequently used GC's when the main DB reaches its size limit. When the Archive DB reaches its size limit unused GC's (the entire gene line of a poorly performing GC) are placed in to encrypted compressed database back up files.

## Configuration

The Database Manager is configured 

## Initialisation

When the DBM intializes it will create or migrate the DB's as required and then respawn. This is to ensure any potential additional memory claim by these one-off processes are freed to the system before long term operation commences.

```mermaid
---
title: EGP DBM Initialisation
---
flowchart TD
    init1[Parse Configuration]
    init2[DB Discovery]
    init3{DB Exists}
    crt1[Create DB's]
    crt2{Higher Layer
        DB Exists?}
    crt3[Populate from
        Higher Layer]
    crt4{Remote DB file exists?}
    crt5[Pull remote DB file]
    crt6[Validate file signature]
    crt7[Populate from file]
    crt8[Validate installation signature]
    crt9[Populate from
        Installation]
    init4{Migration
        required?}
    init5[Run Archive
        Process once]
    init6[Lock DBs]
    init7[Backup DBs]
    init8[Migrate
        1 version]
    init9{Migration
        required ?}
    init10[Start
        operation]
    end1[Shutdown &
        respawn]
    st1[Sync to HL
        Process]
    st2[Archive
        Process]
    st3[REST API
        Process]
    st4[Analytics
        Process]

    init1 --> init2
    init2 --> init3
    init3 --> |Yes|init4
    init3 --> |No|crt1
    init4 --> |No|init5
    init5 --> init10
    init4 --> |Yes|init6
    init6 --> init7
    init7 --> init8
    init8 --> init9
    init9 --> |Yes|init8
    init9 --> |No|end1
    init10 --> st1
    init10 --> st2
    init10 --> st3
    init10 --> st4

    crt1 --> crt2
    crt2 --> |Yes|crt3
    crt2 --> |No|crt4
    crt3 --> end1
    crt4 --> |Yes|crt5
    crt4 --> |No|crt8
    crt5 --> crt6
    crt6 --> crt7
    crt7 --> end1
    crt8 --> crt9
    crt9 --> end1

```

## Operation

### Archive Process

```mermaid
---
title: EGP DBM Archive Process
---
flowchart TD
    arc1{DB Size over
        limit?}
    arc2[Wait N
        seconds]
    arc3[Identify
        Candidates]
    arc4[Sync to HL
        on policy]
    arc5[Move to
        archive]
    arc6{Archive over
        limit?}
    arc7[Sync to HL
        on policy]
    arc8[Move to
        file]
        
    arc1 --> |No|arc2
    arc2 --> arc1
    arc1 --> |Yes|arc3
    arc3 --> arc4
    arc4 --> arc5
    arc5 --> arc6
    arc6 --> |No|arc1
    arc6 --> |Yes|arc7
    arc7 --> arc8
    arc8 --> arc1
```

### Sync to Higher Layer Process

### REST API Process

### Analytics Process

### File Archive

The file archive created from the EGP DBM is an unordered, size limited, encrypted, signed, binary, compressed file that is
background transfered to the Universal Archive Queue (a remote process that queues archive files for indexed storage).

## The Universal Archive

The Universal Archive, UA, is a centralized archive of GC's stored in files. The archive files are binary, in order, fixed size
records keyed by the GC signature. Archive files are required to be limited to 2**24 entries. When an archive file reaches its
entry limit it splits into two files one covering the lower signature range and the other the upper signature range. This means
the two files are unlikely to have the same number of entries but should be similar. e.g. The first archive files contains
signatures in the range 0x000...000 to 0xFFF...FFF. When it reaches its size limit it splits into two archives one holding
signatures in the range 0x000...000 to 0x7FF...FFF and the other 0x800...000 to 0xFFF...FFF. By convention archive files are named
with the lower bound significant hexadecimal characters followed by a hyphen and the upper bound significant hexadecimal characters
with the .bin extension e.g.

- 0-F.bin for the 1st archive file covering all signatures (0x000...000 to 0xFFF...FFF).
- 0-7.bin and 8-F.bin when the 1st archive file exceeds 2**24 entries and is split into two.
- 107-10F.bin for the signature range 0x10700...000 to 0x10FFF...FFF

All files are signed but not encrypted to enable storage based direct record access.

## Database Auxillary Tables

Besides the GC's in the main database table the DBM creates and manages some auxillary data tables to performance and analytics.

### DB Metadata

- UUID
- Version
- Created time
- Migration list (to version and timestamp)
- Host list (more than one if the DB moved hosts)
- Creator UUID
- Archive information
- HL Sync information
- Worker Session information

### Timeseries Analytics

- DB Size in GC's
- Number GC's archived
- Number GC's updated
- Number GC's sync'd
- Number problems
- Number populations
- Fitness distributions

etc.
