docs/goals.md, before:

# The Goals of EGP

_It's really about the ride!_

EGP is a research project, much less a development project. The vision is a meta-learning agent can be evolved in python in reasonable time and at reasonable cost to achieve something useful. Evolutionary algorithms, EA, are certainly not fashionable at the moment and the artificial neural network, ANN, domain is roaring ahead, setting the bar of 'useful' very high. A good work on the state of EA was done by [Roman Yampolskiy: "Why We Do Not Evolve Software? Analysis of Evolutionary Algorithms"](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6287292/) in 2018.

As with any complex project dealing with significant uncertainty the expectation is not that version 1 or even 1000 will disrupt the domain but that version 1 will show how to build a better version 2 and shine a light down the path to version 10. For meta-genetic programming to have a future the thing that has to be demonstrated is meta-learning: That a system can learn how to learn better. If that can be demonstrated, even in an constrained environment, then there is a case for investment. That is EGP's goal.

Commit message:

Refine wording in goals documentation for clarity and add context on recent developments in meta-learning

docs/goals.md, after:

# The Goals of EGP

_It's really about the ride!_

EGP is a research project, much less a development project. The vision is a meta-learning agent that can be evolved in python in reasonable time and at reasonable cost to achieve something useful. Evolutionary algorithms, EA, are certainly not fashionable at the moment and the artificial neural network, ANN, domain is roaring ahead, setting the bar of 'useful' very high. A good work on the state of EA was done by [Roman Yampolskiy: "Why We Do Not Evolve Software? Analysis of Evolutionary Algorithms"](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6287292/) in 2018 which remains largely true with the exception of [Funsearch](https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/funsearch-making-new-discoveries-in-mathematical-sciences-using-large-language-models/) by Google Deepmind.

As with any complex project dealing with significant uncertainty the expectation is not that version 1 or even 100 will disrupt the domain but that version 1 will show how to build a better version 2 and shine a light down the path to version 10. For meta-genetic programming to have a future the thing that has to be demonstrated is meta-learning: That a system can learn how to learn better. If that can be demonstrated, even in an constrained environment, then there is a case for investment. That is EGP's goal. Funsearch nicely frames what a generally accepted recent scope could be for EGP to show potential in time×cost×capability.
