# Why!?

Rather than have an FAQ that rehashes the detailed documentation this section has been added to answer questions "Why is it like that?".

1. **Where did the name "Erasmus" come from?"** EGP was named after [Charles Darwins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Darwin) grandfather [Erasmus Darwin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erasmus_Darwin). The name "Darwin" is used in relation to evolutionary algorithms n a lot of places, unsurprisingly, and so the intention was to stick near the great man himself but not be lost in the crowd. Erasmus Darwin (his grandfather; there are, in fact, a lot of Erasmus's in the [Darwin family tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darwin%E2%80%93Wedgwood_family)) theorized about survival of the fittest in his work [Zoonomia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zoonomia) which influenced Charles, but is not the same as natural selection.
2. **What happened to EGP generation I and generation II?** They are (almost) consigned to history. As with any significant research you start off one direction and end up going down another. Erasmus Gen I did not work at all by any significant measure of its goals. Developing programs that write programs that write programs... in python is harder than it looks. Gen I had serious design flaws, was chopped up and turned into Gen II. Gen II met a similar fate, whilst it worked better it was slow and could not scale. Scaling is key, a lot of evolution needs to happen quickly, the multi-repo approach was also not working well and too much time was lost keeping things in sync. If the architecture & design were more stable it might be the way to go but at this stage things are still very dynamic. Gen III is incorporating a lot of lessons and some better practices in terms of security & stability should it ever make it to a public package.
3. **When did the Erasmus project start?** The official epoch for EGP is [16:26 Christmas Day 2019 (UTC)](https://github.com/Shapedsundew9/erasmus-gp/blob/e6af5c28906734d9441f6f419ad9ee95c755cd25/egpcommon/egpcommon/common.py#L20) and is the time the "Erasmus Thoughts" Google doc was created to be the repository of notes from which EGP Gen I was developed. That document still exists and runs to almost 200 pages but is rarely updated now - it will never be made public - it would be too embarrassing! The ideas for Erasmus run a long and winding path back to some time in the mid-naughties.
4. **What similar projects are there to EGP?** There aren't really any out there that do _meta_ genetic programming and even the academic papers on the subject used the language [Lisp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisp_(programming_language)) in a limited way. Though I am happy to be proven wrong and meet fellow believers with an distributable implementation. There are several Genetic Programming packages out there the most popular of which (if you want more than just symbolic regression) is [DEAP](https://github.com/DEAP/deap) but Genetic Programming does not tackle meta-learning so not really the same thing.
5. **What inspired the EGP logo?** [Explanation coming]
6. **What inspired you to build Erasmus?** [Explanation coming]
7. **The terms "codon" and "genetic code" are used a lot but they are not used in they way you would find in the literature?**  [Explanation coming]
